
Kabuki Syndrome is a rare (approximately 1 in 32000 people) disease that is detected from birth and presents with distinctive facial features, neurological and many other developmental disorders. 
There is no cure for the disease and the treatments are applied to reduce the symptoms that occur with the disease. It is known that Kabuki Syndrome is a disease of genetic origin. The most important 
factor causing the disease is mutations identified in the KMT2D gene. KMT2D mutations are seen in 55-80% of patients. KMT2D, also known as MLL4, functions as histone methyl transferase and plays a 
critical role in chromatin remodeling and regulation of gene expression in the cell nucleus. KMT’D is also required for cell differentiation and is frequently mutated in many types of cancer. KMT2D 
is a very large protein consisting of approximately 5500 amino acids and contains many functional domains in its structure.

There have been many KMT2D mutations described for Kabuki Syndrome in literature. The effect of these mutations on the structure and function of the KMT2D protein is unknown. Although there have been
recently few studies on the effect of mutations in the enzymatic region of the protein (SET region), mutations in other functional regions of the protein have not been studied to a large extent, and
the effects of mutations on protein-protein interactions and chromatin organization in general are unknown. Within the scope of the project proposal, a preliminary analysis of the missense and
nonsense/frameshift mutations occurring in the KMT2D gene was performed and it was determined that these two mutation types were differentially concentrated at the N-terminal (FYRN) and C-terminal (FYRC) 
motif regions of the protein's FYR module. Additionally, it was identified that R5282* nonsense mutation, which is in the FYRC motif, is found in a Kabuki Syndrome patient in Turkey. 

In this project, the effects of R5179C and R5282* mutations in the FYRN and FYRC motifs of the KMT2D protein on protein-protein interactions, protein structure and chromatin organization will be investigated. 
 
